Welcome to T I M E E L I N E
================

15:52:12 bart@monster:~/tl/dev/second$ t
dbtype is sqlite
T I M E E L I N E 0.4 CONSOLE
> ;todo
todolist of bart: 

    1) filesystem for tl-bots .. map urls to files on fs datadir .. use ~/tl-export/.tl as entrypoint for a datadir copy of ~/.tl
    2) build a global monitoring klachten lijst registratie hier op
    3) also make copyin for registration of the json avail on email
    4) make bots also have a email interface where timestampped json dict can be registered. timestamped events.
    5) shadow function on Persist that copies data to the /home/bart/tl-export/datadir
    6) also add a log to Persist that will log the changes to /home/bart/jt-changes/datadir


the tl pakage contains the following programs:

    * tl - console bot
    * tl-fleet - mix IRC and XMPP bots
    * tl-irc - IRC bot
    * tl-tornado - a shell web server based on tornado
    * tl-sleek - XMPP bot

note: T I M E E L I N E is in very early stage of development right now and still subject to change of protocols and API.

see https://github.com/feedbackflow/tl

license
~~~~~~~

T I M E E L I N E is free code (MIT) and can be cloned where needed. 

contact the developer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    * email: feedbackflow@gmail.com
    * jabber/xmpp: feedbackflow@gmail.com
    * IRC: feedbackflow on #tl irc.freenode.net
    * twitter: http://twitter.com/feedbackflow


running a development version of the bot
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

first checkout the main bot from the mercurial repository

    git clone https://github.com/feedbackflow/tl

now you can run the programs in the bin directory with the
./bin/<program>  command. try ./bin/tl for the console app
.. _handbook-introduction:


INTRODUCTION
============

Getting Started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Get the latest tarball from:

    ::

        https://github.com/feedbackflow/tl/downloads

Or install from github:

    ::

        git clone https://github.com/feedbackflow/tl.git
    

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Data and configuratiion files can be found in the datadir which defaults to ~/.tl (or
another directory if the -d option is used). A bit further on i will give some basic examples.

Configuration files are written on startup of tl. Use the --help option to see what other options are available.

Look for the config/fleet directory for bot configuration files.


Console bot
~~~~~~~~~~~

In the bot dir run the ./bin/tl command to start the console version of the bot.

    ::

        22:44:11 dev@done:~/dev/0.7/5$ ./bin/tl
        T I M E E L I N E 0.1.5 DEVELOPMENT CONSOLE
        >

If you just want to execute 1 command on the bot, you can do that by giving
it as an argument:

    ::

        22:45:24 dev@done:~/dev/0.1.5/5$ ./bin/tl list
        available plugins: 8b, admin, alias, ask, chan, chatlog, choice,
        controlchar, core, count, data, echo, fleet, foo, forward, gatekeeper,
        gcalc, grep, hubbub, idle, ipcalc, irc, karma, kickban, koffie, learn, misc,
        more, mpd, nickserv, not, outputcache, plug, ps, quote, relay, reload,
        remind, restserver, reverse, rss, seen, shop, sort, tail, test, tinyurl, to,
        todo, twitter, udp, uniq, url, urlinfo, user, userstate, watcher, weather,
        welcome, wikipedia, xmpp
 

IRC bot
~~~~~~~

Run the following to make the bot connect to an IRC server:

    ::

        ./bin/tl-irc -o <userhost of owner> -s <server> -c \<channel>

A configuration file will be generated from the command line opions. If you
already have the configuration files (generated by tl-init) you can just use (without any options):

    ::

        ./bin/tl-irc


XMPP bot
~~~~~~~~

Run the following to make the bot connect to an Jabber server:

    ::

        ./bin/tl-sleek -o <owner JID> -u <bot JID> -p <password> [-c <conference>] [-s <server>]

Or when configuration files already exist, just run the bot without arguments:

    ::

        ./bin/tl-sleek

Conference and server options are optional. Server is take from the -u
option if not provided as a seperate option. 


Plugins
~~~~~~~

To see what plugins are available use the !list command. Use !help <plugin>
to get help on a plugin. 

    ::

        23:03:00 dev@done:~/dev/0.1.5/5$ ./bin/tl help misc
        HELP ON MISC misc commands.,     !source - <i> show where to fetch the bot
        source. </i> - examples: source,     !test - <i> give test response. </i> -
        examples:  test



If a plugin is not responding try !plug-enable <plugin>:

    :: 

        23:03:05 dev@done:~/dev/0.1.5/5$ ./bin/tl
        T I M E E L I N E 0.1.5 DEVELOPMENT CONSOLE
        > !plug-enable misc
        reloading and enabling tl.plugs.core.misc
        done - plug-enable misc
        > 


otherwise try !admin-boot:

    ::

        23:05:46 dev@done:~/dev/0.1.5/5$ ./bin/tl
        T I M E E L I N E 0.1.5 DEVELOPEMENT CONSOLE
        > !admin-boot
        done - admin-boot
        > 


this will regenerate the callbacks and command indexes. 

You can also use !apro <search> to search for commands:

    ::

        23:01:23 dev@done:~/dev/0.1.5/5$ ./bin/tl apro wiki
        commands matching wiki: wikipedia


Commandline Help
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the programs have a --help option that shows a help page describing the command line options of the program.
